readme.md, before:

# HOAP Admin

Administrative application for HOAP Inc, built by a team of developers during [Code For Good West Michigan's](https://codeforgoodwm.org/) weekend for good, 2019.

## Requirements

This project requires that you have access to [**composer**](https://getcomposer.org/) on your machine as well as a [**MySQL database instance**](https://www.mysql.com/) so that you can migrate the schema and seed the data required.

## Installing

**Notice:** I am almost positive that these installation docs are not complete. Please update this list with relevant information if you can.

1. Clone the repo
2. Navigate your terminal to the just cloned repo's directory and run `composer install` in order to download your `vendor` folder.
3. Once that is done, you should have a `.env` file. If you do not, then copy `.env.example` to `.env` in your directory
4. Fill out your `.env` file's `DB` information with whatever needs to be filled out in order to make a connection.
5. Run the command `php artisan migrate` in order to create your needed database schema
6. Run the command `php artisan db:seed` to seed the database.
6. Run `php artisan serve` in order to serve the application locally.

## Database Install

The general method that I use to create the database and user for the database are the following commands below. You will either want to use the root user or a super administrator user for this:

#### Schema creation

```sql
CREATE SCHEMA `hoap_admin` DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci ;
```

#### User Creation

```sql
CREATE USER 'hoap_admin_user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password_here'
```

where 'password_here' is whatever password you want your application's user to have.

#### User Grant Creation

```sql
GRANT ALL ON hoap_admin.* TO 'hoap_admin_user'@'localhost'
```

## Details / Documentation

### Models

The items listed below are the general models that are available to have administrative (i.e. CRUD) actions performed on them.

#### Person / User Based
1. User - Administrtors of the HOAP ADMIN site.
1. Participant - People that HOAP has performed services for in their organization
1. Child - Children of participants
1. Donor - People who have donated to HOAP
1. Volunteer - People performing free services for the HOAP organization
1. Community Partner - Agencies/contacts with contact information including county & notes section

#### Supplemental

##### Person / User Actions

Actions that some people/users can take in our application that should be able to be recorded.

1. Donation / Payment - Accounts of donations given to the hoap organization. (one time vs recurring, in kind, & amount of gift)
1. TimeEntry - Volunteer time (date, number of hours, description) (connected to a volunteer)

##### Person / User Demographics

Statistical data relating to the model that the demographic is for. The demographics listed below will have

1. ParticipantDemographic
	- Completed High School?
	- Enrolled or Completed Secondary Education
	- How many children?
	- Annual Income
    - Enrollment date
    - Exit date
2. ChildDemographic
	- Dad Involved?
	- Child Care / School Information
	- CPS Involvement?
3. DonorDemographic

4. VolunteerDemographic ( Not really sure if this will be needed )
    - Start date

**Developers Note**: I haven't really scoped out if there is a need for the separation of these demographic entities, but we'll see.

Aside from the specific metrics that are listed with the individual demographic, each demographic should also include the following items:

1. Name
2. Age
3. Date of Birth
4. Gender
5. Email
6. Phone Number
7. Address
8. County
9. Notes

### Reports

CSV dumps of model data.

## Authors and Acknowledgement

To the people listed below, thank you for helping to make this project become a reality for HOAP Inc.

1. Keenan Barber - keenan.c.barber@gmail.com
2. Kyle Blanker - kyle@blanker.us
3. Dan Drust - dandrust@gmail.com
4. Dillon Walls - wallsdil@gmail.com
5. Kellan Martin - kellan.martin@gmail.com

This project was made with [Laravel 6.x](https://laravel.com/)

Commit message:

Updating readme to have some developer specific docs

readme.md, after:

# HOAP Admin

Administrative application for HOAP Inc, built by a team of developers during [Code For Good West Michigan's](https://codeforgoodwm.org/) weekend for good, 2019.

## Requirements

This project requires that you have access to [**composer**](https://getcomposer.org/) on your machine as well as a [**MySQL database instance**](https://www.mysql.com/) so that you can migrate the schema and seed the data required.

## Installing

**Notice:** I am almost positive that these installation docs are not complete. Please update this list with relevant information if you can.

1. Clone the repo
2. Navigate your terminal to the just cloned repo's directory and run `composer install` in order to download your `vendor` folder.
3. Once that is done, you should have a `.env` file. If you do not, then copy `.env.example` to `.env` in your directory
4. Fill out your `.env` file's `DB` information with whatever needs to be filled out in order to make a connection.
5. Run the command `php artisan migrate` in order to create your needed database schema
6. Run the command `php artisan db:seed` to seed the database.
6. Run `php artisan serve` in order to serve the application locally.

## Database Install

The general method that I use to create the database and user for the database are the following commands below. You will either want to use the root user or a super administrator user for this:

#### Schema creation

```sql
CREATE SCHEMA `hoap_admin` DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci ;
```

#### User Creation

```sql
CREATE USER 'hoap_admin_user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password_here'
```

where 'password_here' is whatever password you want your application's user to have.

#### User Grant Creation

```sql
GRANT ALL ON hoap_admin.* TO 'hoap_admin_user'@'localhost'
```

## Details / Documentation

### Models

The items listed below are the general models that are available to have administrative (i.e. CRUD) actions performed on them.

#### Person / User Based
1. User - Administrtors of the HOAP ADMIN site.
1. Participant - People that HOAP has performed services for in their organization
1. Child - Children of participants
1. Donor - People who have donated to HOAP
1. Volunteer - People performing free services for the HOAP organization
1. Community Partner - Agencies/contacts with contact information including county & notes section

#### Supplemental

##### Person / User Actions

Actions that some people/users can take in our application that should be able to be recorded.

1. Donation / Payment - Accounts of donations given to the hoap organization. (one time vs recurring, in kind, & amount of gift)
1. TimeEntry - Volunteer time (date, number of hours, description) (connected to a volunteer)

##### Person / User Demographics

Statistical data relating to the model that the demographic is for. The demographics listed below will have

1. ParticipantDemographic
	- Completed High School?
	- Enrolled or Completed Secondary Education
	- How many children?
	- Annual Income
    - Enrollment date
    - Exit date
2. ChildDemographic
	- Dad Involved?
	- Child Care / School Information
	- CPS Involvement?
3. DonorDemographic

4. VolunteerDemographic ( Not really sure if this will be needed )
    - Start date

**Developers Note**: I haven't really scoped out if there is a need for the separation of these demographic entities, but we'll see.

Aside from the specific metrics that are listed with the individual demographic, each demographic should also include the following items:

1. Name
2. Age
3. Date of Birth
4. Gender
5. Email
6. Phone Number
7. Address
8. County
9. Notes

### Reports

CSV dumps of model data.


### Developer Notes

#### Creating base administrator user

In order to create an administrator user, you must use the command:
`php artisan voyager:admin --create` and then go through all of the steps needed

## Authors and Acknowledgement

To the people listed below, thank you for helping to make this project become a reality for HOAP Inc.

1. Keenan Barber - keenan.c.barber@gmail.com
2. Kyle Blanker - kyle@blanker.us
3. Dan Drust - dandrust@gmail.com
4. Dillon Walls - wallsdil@gmail.com
5. Kellan Martin - kellan.martin@gmail.com

This project was made with [Laravel 6.x](https://laravel.com/)
